---
title: "Working on Local Packages in Laravel with Composer"
excerpt: ""
tags:
- laravel
- php
- composer
- packages
---
# Working on Local Packages in Laravel with Composer  

Recently, I've been working on developing a set of packages for Laravel to wrap up some of the code we write on a daily basis. Whilst developing I needed a way to reference a local package to my Laravel install and wanted to use `composer.json` to include, and update it's dependancies. 

To do this, I found it often easier to symbolic link my package into a directory within my Laravel project called `packages/namespace/package-name` and then set up Composer to read it automatically.

- **Packages** is the folder I store all the local packages I'm working on.
- **Package Group** is usually the name (i.e. creator, user account on GitHub/composer)
- **Package Name** is the name of the package I want to install.

An example of this would be

    packages/jackabox/admin

# Create the symbolic link

I store all the packages I write, in a separate directory on my computer but I also often work with other developers to implement and test their packages alongside mine. To keep this consistent I often clone and keep all of my packages in their own directory, away from all the busyness of the main Laravel package.

To include them in my Laravel project, I'll run a symlink which looks something like the following (changed to your own sources).

    cd project
    mkdir packages
    mkdir packages/namespace
    ln -s ../packages/admin packages/namespace/admin

Perfect, now we just need to get composer to read the files.

# Setting Up Composer

To get composer to read a local package, we have to manually add the reference to the repositories section of the JSON. This would look something along the lines of the following:

    
    "repositories": [
       {
           "type": "path",
           "url": "packages/namespace/admin",
           "options": {
                "symlink": true
           }
       }
    ],

After that we need to require the file by adding it to our requires object, as so:

    "require": {
    		...
         "namespace/admin": "dev-develop"
    },

After that, within our Laravel project, we can run `composer update` (or `install`) and Composer will read our local package, create a copy in the vendor folder, download all other required packages and set up the autoload.
