---
title: New Jobs are Daunting
excerpt: ""
tags:
  - thoughts
  - crohns disease
---
Recently, I've pursued a change in career. This is a relatively normal thing to do, people move around jobs and the world keeps on turning, but it's an area that I find extremely challenging. 

Workplace jobs are naturally outward facing. You get up, you get ready, you go to a job and work a 9-5 communicating with people, clients and everything in between, you put on a brave face and you deal with both the wonderful and the shit. As someone who has Crohn's this is sometimes the last thing I want to do - I'm challenged daily by a battle between physical health and mental health and somewhere in between I'll find the time to put on a brave face.

Now, I've decided to move job as I was looking for a new adventure, I was needing a change in scenery and pace and these are all natural things to crave. It sounds kind of contradicting though to what I outlined above. I want a change of pace and yet I'm undoubtedly scared of feeling overwhelmed and pressured.

I've had a drive since being young that I wanted to achieve the best I could and be the best I could, and even after being diagnosed 8 years ago with a chronic condition, I still want that. I want to be able deliver above and beyond. Crohn's has both been a hindrance and a blessing for this. 




---


The idea behind moving, settling into a new group of people, overcoming personal boundaries. They are things that a lot of people struggle with. 

New jobs are objectively daunting for people, you're stepping into a new place with new faces and new processes all of which you are expected to pick up within a few days. Even simple tasks you do everyday can become a little hurdle you have to jump over, what if your new employer is doing things a completely different way to that you know.

Now, I have Crohn's Disease which comes with it's own elements and surprises. Personally, I find it to be a lot more temperamental to deal with whenever I'm under stress and as you'll probably already know - new jobs can provide stress. Oh boy am I looking forward to that one. 