# Utilizing Accessors and Mutators within a Laravel Application

A common thing I've found when analysing or revisiting code, is that logic will repeatedly rewritten throughout different controllers or views, or even extra database tables created to handle the logic once and store it, increasing query counts. 

Laravel has a pretty handy way of allowing us to utilise the model to contain this logic, making our application simpler, cleaner and much more accessible. This is done via the use of Accessors and Mutators. Used right they can be really beneficial!

## Accessors

Accessors are our way of telling a model how to get some form of information and the way to present it. This can be done to manipulate data that already exists, for example to capitalize a name, or to create some new logic which we don't typically store anywhere.

If we take the example of a product. Products usually have prices, you might store these in your database as the base price and also want a way to handle adding VAT (or other taxes) on top.  We can handle this in our model, get the price and add the VAT on top, abstracting the functionality from anywhere else in our application.

To do this, we'd create a function starting with `get` and ending in `Attribute`, creating something along the lines of the following.

```php
<?php 
namespace App\Models;

class Product { 
	...
        
	/**
	 * Get the price including vat attribute
	 *
	 * @return string
	 */
	public function getPriceIncVatAttribute()
	{
	    return $this->price * 1.2;
	}
	
}  
```

We can then utilize this code the same way you would any other property of a model and call it by doing the following

```php
$product = Product::find(1);
echo $product->price_inc_vat;
```

To take this a step further, you may want to make the new attribute available within the the model properties by default, rather than just when we call it. This is useful if we are creating an API or passing a lot of logic to a front end component (such as Vue.js).

To do this we'd need to add it to the `appends` variable in the model.

```php
<?php 
namespace App\Models;

class Product {
    ...
        
    protected $appends = ['price_inc_vat'];
    
    ...
        
	/**
	 * Get the price including vat attribute
	 *
	 * @return string
	 */
	public function getPriceIncVatAttribute()
	{
	    return $this->price * 1.2;
	}
	
}  
```

This will now automatically call the `getPriceIncVatAttribute` whenever we request the model. Pretty handy, and useful.

### Accessors With Queries

You can also use accessors to handle the logic of relations, or queries. This can be useful to handle logic on relations that you may find yourself repeating, for example you might want to count the items in your basket. We could define our accessor to reference the items and count them. Keeping this logic simple and bundled.

```php
public function getBasketCountAttribute() {
    return $this->items()->count();
}
```

**Note:** Usually you would avoid adding any accessors which do extra database queries to the `$appends` due to the fact an extra query would then be made every time a model is loaded, rather then as needed.

## Mutators

Mutators work on the way that we **set** data in our model. These can be really useful for when you want to perform logic on data before it is inserted into a database.

If we take the example of a User, we know that if we store a password we are always going to want to encrypt this when it is set in the database. We could define an mutator on the model which will allow us to ensure that the data is always Hashed and stored appropriately. 

In a controller you may have been doing something along the lines of the following

```php
public function update(Request $request)
{
    $user = User::find(1);
    $user->password = Hash::make($request->newPassword)
    $user->save();
}
```

We'd have to call this every time we create a new user, when they update their password, and so forth. We can abstract this logic and handle it within our model. To do so, we'd need to create a new function in our model that follows a structure of `setTableColumnAttribute`, like so

```php
<?php

namespace App;

use Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Model;
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Hash;

class User extends Model
{
    /**
     * Set the user's first name.
     *
     * @param  string  $value
     * @return void
     */
    public function setPasswordAttribute($value)
    {
        $this->attributes['password'] = Hash::make($value);
    }
}
```

We'd then go ahead and update our controller so that the Hash was not defined there, as such

```php
public function update(Request $request)
{
    $user = User::find(1);
    $user->password = $request->newPassword
    $user->save();
}
```





You can find the official documentation on this at [https://laravel.com/docs/5.6/eloquent-mutators](https://laravel.com/docs/5.6/eloquent-mutators)