---
title: "Just Stop."
excerpt: "Mental health is a thing we all have to deal with. It is especially prevalent in our industry and needs to be talked about. I personally find it therapeutic to write about my feelings so hopefully others can relate."
tags: 
  - thoughts
  - wellbeing
---

Stop.

Just stop.

Breathe in. Breathe out.

Take a moment, think. 

What's the one thing in your life that's holding you back? What's stopping you? You know there is something. It's making you unhappy.
 
You're a creature of routine. You wake up, you go to work, you come home and do your chores, eat, try to calm yourself - to remove your stress. Before you know it you're getting into bed.

Lying awake. Your mind running over everything, never stopping. It's sprinting, you're out of breath - tired. But you can't sleep. Oh, that is what it wants. 

20 minutes. 1 hour. 2. You're still awake. The bed is now your enemy, uncomfortable. You're fidgeting. Why can't you sleep? It's playing on your mind still. The darkness is not your friend. The lights go down but your mind doesn't stop.

Please! Stop!

Why doesn't it stop? You know the answer. You don't want to accept the answer. You skip past it, thinking it'll be fine the next day. 

You get up. You're tired. Restless. Agitated. You're easily aggravated. You snap. You apologies. You're angry. You're upset. Your emotions fluctuate. You can't stop it - or can you.

That problem. It festered. It grew. It became a bigger problem. You thought it was fine. It wasn't. It's time to call it out. 

Shout it.

Let the world hear. Yell it at the top of your lungs. 
You don't need to be ashamed. Don't let it trick you. Don't let it hold onto you - it's trying to pull you back. 

Say it out loud.

You see that? It's scared, it's fleeing. You've acknowledged it. 
People can see it now. They can see your struggle. They can understand. They can help. 

Step by step. We're moving. Moving forward.

It's a long road, but you can see the end.

You'll make it. Powered by the support around you. When you are ready then you can look back. You'll see it. In the far distance, the fainting memory of the demons that held you.

Bid them farewell. 

You're moving on. 

Adios.

<br>
<br>

---

Mental health is a thing we all have to deal with. It is especially prevalent in our industry and needs to be talked about. 

We should always be able to talk about our feelings, not hide behind them. I personally find it therapeutic to write about my feelings so hopefully others can relate. 

The above is a follow up to one of my <a href="https://twitter.com/jackabox/status/1009764917946273792" target="_blank">latest tweets</a>. 
